hi today I will show you how you can use
the animate skeleton
tool um so I'm going to take this pirate
and animate
him so I have this uh animation made by
our
user
ysep and it looks like
this so what I will do is I will take
this animation and apply it on my
character
so how would we do this yes so in the
skeleton tool we have animation to
animation so let's go over
there so first we will select our pirate
as
reference when we do this we will uh get
a skeleton
automatically now I recommend if you see
any issues uh fix them like this and you
can see what uh point you have selected
up here so here is like left arm right
arm just it's a bit easier to know then
to uh set the animation we select the
frames like this then we click set
animation uh this will also uh generate
uh
skeletons and here I also recommend uh
using edit pose to fix these things up
up now here you can see our reference
and here are the uh the skeletons for
the walking animation so now we're going
to make sure that these are in similar
size so then we can do like increase
decrease
height wi we can move them left to right
and in advanced
options we have something called uh we
can also change just the head size but
we also have fixed head which means
that uh the uh reference head here will
be applied to all the animations this
can be quite useful
because very often in animations like
the head wants to look the same and stay
the same and this way we will uh we will
make sure that the head will look the
same all right nice so let's now compare
okay I think he should
be uh a bit wider probably going to move
him up a
bit just to make sure then we can click
show
reference and it will switch
over we can kind of
compare we can
hide yeah I mean it looks quite good and
we can click rescale and it's not the
end of the world if it isn't perfect
because we can rescale again just make
sure that you uh set it back like this
so it's not uh too off
uh okay it looks like I want him to be a
bit
taller like
this so let's do this
SC oh okay maybe I was wrong maybe he
shouldn't have been
taller so let's move him down a
bit dease
height all right
nice so now that we have uh skeleton
template like this let's go over to
generation so for the first generation I
will pick freeze one frame generate
three
frames so what's going to happen here
is uh I'm going to use this Frozen frame
here it means like the position you're
standing
on and the reference image is this one
and then these three skeletons are this
one and this
one and number two as well sorry two
three and four and uh the Frozen frame
is my reference frame so this means that
the model will have a reference image to
look at and one one frame to also use as
guidance now let's make sure our camera
view is correct so it should be a side
scroller direction is
South and
yeah let's generate
oh yeah what I should have mentioned
here is that when it's black like this
it means that the whole image will be
edited and uh if you can see your
character that means that it won't be uh
changed all right
nice let's close this
one cool so here we can see okay it's
did try to do some some things here we
can maybe look do like
this right
cool and yeah this
pose might need to be edited a
bit but let's keep going just for
uh uh
let's I
think I think I want to uh fix this up
so I'm going to go to skeleton setup
animation to animation and instead of uh
changing all of the uh animations I'm
just going
to uh fix this
Frame so let's make this
one a bit
taller cuz it's seemed a bit short let's
move it up a
bit and let's rescale it
cool let's go back to
generation and uh yeah just for the sake
of it let's do uh custom and this is
like how it was before so now you can
see none of the uh frames up here are
are black which means none of them will
be
changed but of course we want to change
change the one that we just fixed the
skeleton for so let's uh go to that
frame this one we'll go to in painting
then we will color it in
black and as you can see
now uh first frame will stay the same
second frame will stay the same fourth
frame will stay the same and we will
only be changing the black
one all right let's click Let's uh
should also be good we can also do this
you can go to the pose you can use
selection tool you can move it up
all right now let's uh
generate so
now this Frame will stay the same frame
two will stay the same and only frame
three will be uh
edited all right that looks so much
better so before and
after as you can see quite nice
all right so now it looks a bit
better and
here there are couple of options to make
improvements um so we can do that
because before we generate last frame
it's better if each frame is as good as
possible because they will be used to uh
guide future
frames uh okay so I will avoid
uh I will use in pinning just to show
you how it
works so
let's uh in paint where we want to edit
this image so I think this will be good
to be
edited and
um in this
one probably don't want to edit that
much but maybe something like this
something like
this and in this one
on yeah this place as well and some of
this stuff is just better to
uh to do by hand in my opinion but you
can also use oh wait ah it's G because I
had the
uh the one underneath visible as
well and yeah that's
and
here let's in paint
this Okay cool so let's go back
now and uh it's a bit hard to see but
here we can see it's inpainted it's in
painted here and the leg
here and let's uh click generate again
you also might want to use like init
image which will help the model
understand like what colors what shape
it should be uh because in painting just
in painting the model will have no
knowledge really of what's
underneath which has it advantageous uh
which can be quite advantageous if
you're not sure what you want it to look
like and it might be less effort to just
in paint and not use init image but init
images are very power powerful so I do
recommend um using
that all right cool let's
just edit these small pixels that
aren't exactly how we would like them to
be let's do back
here something like this and it's good
to like I mentioned before to fix things
up before you do the Next Generation
just so that the model
has the best possible
uh yeah it has the most odd best odds
for creating a good next frame all right
let's check out the last generat
generation
setup which is freeze three frames and
generate one frame so I position myself
now in the second frame which means that
the second third and fourth frame these
three will be Frozen and won't be
edited and the fifth frame here uh you
can see here is black which means that
it will be completely changed and the
reference image is still my first frame
just because it's the highest quality it
makes sense for these Generations
because it's facing south and uh yeah
you can you could argue you could have
this one as well as your reference image
but having this one is just like a more
clean
image uh all right
so let's uh click
generate I can show you the post this
one
cool let's see how it looks all right so
now we if we set the loop here we can
check out what it looks
like oh yeah just like the uh skeleton
here before this one is also the uh the
old one
so what we can do is
let's see are the settings still the
same uh maybe
not but
let's change it a bit let's uh do
generate again
ah we lost the
uh ah okay okay sorry sorry it got
confused because the I made the uh the
layer invisible that's why my
bad uh so yeah remember to uh make sure
that the layer is visible that you have
your reference image from uh all
right can just do it like
this so we don't have anything
underneath making it
confused oh my bad I generated from the
wrong
position
uh like this
and yeah yeah this one
is is quite a lot better ah it's just
missing a hand otherwise I
think it's probably the uh best one so
far so just like I showed you before I
will show you in it image as well
because I think that's good uh so that's
in paint
and we will
draw ah yeah yeah we draw black
here and yeah it's good to remember to
uh remove the impeding before as well
now it doesn't matter because we have uh
we don't have use imp paining
active uh but in this case we would do
want use in paining so we have
freeze the first three and then we will
in paint uh use in painting on the last
frame and we we're also going to use in
it images because like I said it's good
to know how to use
it and we will go in
here just high it's easier to see and
maybe draw something
here so
now uh the model will know because of
the in painting in it images
sorry that there is something that
should be in this color and depending of
in it image strength we have it will
look more or less uh like the uh the
init image and this is because if the
init image strength is 300 it will skip
uh like a couple of the first steps and
the higher init Mission strength we have
the more steps in the in eration the
model will
skip uh 300 is usually a good uh place
to start
off and yeah so let's uh click
generate but yeah uh what I wanted to
mention is that when you're using init
images you might first use 300 and if
you might get a bit better results then
you can use that again and again and
again you keep increasing the init image
strength as the um image
uh increases in
quality all right so let's uh
compare yeah maybe it didn't like my
init image too much so let's try this
again but let's uh
let's do this but let's use a lower init
image
strength and now you can see like
it it was a more free to do what it
wanted to do and it because of the uh
pose it wants to have the hand quite far
up so that was my bad because I was
trying to force it to draw the hand uh
further down than it
wanted all right so let's uh take a look
then
okay so we can
just do some
small
fixes yeah this is how you can
uh
maybe could do something like
this
yeah probably want to do this here as
well
all right let's um let's do uh template
skeleton as well so first similar to
before we want to set
reference and now the template will be
scaled based on the uh skeleton in the
reference
image and let's
do
walk now we want to similar to before
make sure that the uh template looks uh
as closely as
possible and then we want to uh
insert uh what's also good to note is in
advanced options you also have fixed
head and if the the default is if the
reference and the template has the same
direction it will automatically use
fixed head but uh and I I usually
recommend using it especially if you
know if the if you want the head to be
like um look the same and not turn I
recommend using
it so all right let's uh insert
now let's
just fix this up a bit we can uh oh yeah
remember to go to the right layer they
can move drag and it will automatically
uh
reconnect no don't worry the only thing
that actually matters here are the
points and try to make sure that they
don't um let's say uh inter Che like go
on on top of each other because then it
will
uh everything will get confused and you
have to yeah it's just a pain all right
cool now we'll go to
generate let's do uh freeze one generate
three
frames and
yeah click
generate we will be adding
more templates in the future H don't
worry about
it but uh we want to make sure the ones
that we have Works nicely and uh we also
have the animation to animation
so uh yeah and the templates aren't like
a perfect fit always for pixel art like
some types of characters looks better
and some
worse and then for the last generation
you can go freeze three generate one
frame so now frame two three and four
are frozen and the fifth frame will uh
get a new frame you can also use
um different output methods like uh
modify current layer which means that we
won't get 100 layers
but yeah so this what it can look like
quite quickly then you can use init
images and other init images in painting
Etc to uh improve improve it
and if you fix the uh the first frames
up a bit more you will get a better end
result as well and I always also
recommend like don't be scared of just
doing like stuff like this oh sorry
remember to be on the correct layer and
just copy over cuz sometimes it's
just yeah easier to get like a
perfect perfect face like this
instead oh sorry
wrong way
again yeah quite nice all right uh thank
you for watching I hope you found this
helpful leave a comment if you have any
questions and I also recommend joining
our Discord Channel if you need further
assistance I will also link the um the
documentation